---
source_url: https://fluxcd.io/flux/components/image/automation-api/v1/
fetched: 2026-05-01
---

  1. [Docs](<https://fluxcd.io/flux/>)
  2. [Toolkit Components](<https://fluxcd.io/flux/components/>)
  3. [Image Automation Controllers](<https://fluxcd.io/flux/components/image/>)
  4. [Image Update Automation API Reference](<https://fluxcd.io/flux/components/image/automation-api/>)
  5. [Image update automation API reference v1](<https://fluxcd.io/flux/components/image/automation-api/v1/>)



# Image update automation API reference v1

The GitOps Toolkit Custom Resource Definitions documentation.

Packages:

  * image.toolkit.fluxcd.io/v1



## image.toolkit.fluxcd.io/v1

Package v1 contains API types for the image API group, version v1. The types here are concerned with automated updates to git, based on metadata from OCI image registries gathered by the image-reflector-controller.

Resource Types:




### CommitSpec

(_Appears on:_ GitSpec)

CommitSpec specifies how to commit changes to the git repository

Field| Description  
---|---  
`author`  
 _CommitUser_|  Author gives the email and optionally the name to use as the author of commits.  
`signingKey`  
 _SigningKey_|  _(Optional)_ SigningKey provides the option to sign commits with a GPG key  
`messageTemplate`  
 _string_|  _(Optional)_ MessageTemplate provides a template for the commit message, into which will be interpolated the details of the change made. Note: The `Updated` template field has been removed. Use `Changed` instead.  
`messageTemplateValues`  
 _map[string]string_|  _(Optional)_ MessageTemplateValues provides additional values to be available to the templating rendering.  
  
### CommitUser

(_Appears on:_ CommitSpec)

Field| Description  
---|---  
`name`  
 _string_|  _(Optional)_ Name gives the name to provide when making a commit.  
`email`  
 _string_|  Email gives the email to provide when making a commit.  
  
### CrossNamespaceSourceReference

(_Appears on:_ ImageUpdateAutomationSpec)

CrossNamespaceSourceReference contains enough information to let you locate the typed Kubernetes resource object at cluster level.

Field| Description  
---|---  
`apiVersion`  
 _string_|  _(Optional)_ API version of the referent.  
`kind`  
 _string_|  Kind of the referent.  
`name`  
 _string_|  Name of the referent.  
`namespace`  
 _string_|  _(Optional)_ Namespace of the referent, defaults to the namespace of the Kubernetes resource object that contains the reference.  
  
### GitCheckoutSpec

(_Appears on:_ GitSpec)

Field| Description  
---|---  
`ref`  
 _[Source /v1.GitRepositoryRef](<https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/fluxcd/source-controller/api/v1#GitRepositoryRef>)_|  Reference gives a branch, tag or commit to clone from the Git repository.  
  
### GitSpec

(_Appears on:_ ImageUpdateAutomationSpec)

Field| Description  
---|---  
`checkout`  
 _GitCheckoutSpec_|  _(Optional)_ Checkout gives the parameters for cloning the git repository, ready to make changes. If not present, the `spec.ref` field from the referenced `GitRepository` or its default will be used.  
`commit`  
 _CommitSpec_|  Commit specifies how to commit to the git repository.  
`push`  
 _PushSpec_|  _(Optional)_ Push specifies how and where to push commits made by the automation. If missing, commits are pushed (back) to `.spec.checkout.branch` or its default.  
  
### ImageRef

ImageRef represents an image reference.

Field| Description  
---|---  
`name`  
 _string_|  Name is the bare image's name.  
`tag`  
 _string_|  Tag is the image's tag.  
`digest`  
 _string_|  _(Optional)_ Digest is the image's digest.  
  
### ImageUpdateAutomation

ImageUpdateAutomation is the Schema for the imageupdateautomations API

Field| Description  
---|---  
`metadata`  
 _[Kubernetes meta/v1.ObjectMeta](<https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/generated/kubernetes-api/v1.18/#objectmeta-v1-meta>)_|  Refer to the Kubernetes API documentation for the fields of the `metadata` field.  
`spec`  
 _ImageUpdateAutomationSpec_|   
  
| `sourceRef`  
 _CrossNamespaceSourceReference_|  SourceRef refers to the resource giving access details to a git repository.  
---|---  
`git`  
 _GitSpec_|  _(Optional)_ GitSpec contains all the git-specific definitions. This is technically optional, but in practice mandatory until there are other kinds of source allowed.  
`interval`  
 _[Kubernetes meta/v1.Duration](<https://pkg.go.dev/k8s.io/apimachinery/pkg/apis/meta/v1#Duration>)_|  Interval gives an lower bound for how often the automation run should be attempted.  
`policySelector`  
 _[Kubernetes meta/v1.LabelSelector](<https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/generated/kubernetes-api/v1.18/#labelselector-v1-meta>)_|  _(Optional)_ PolicySelector allows to filter applied policies based on labels. By default includes all policies in namespace.  
`update`  
 _UpdateStrategy_|  Update gives the specification for how to update the files in the repository. This can be left empty, to use the default value.  
`suspend`  
 _bool_|  _(Optional)_ Suspend tells the controller to not run this automation, until it is unset (or set to false). Defaults to false.  
`status`  
 _ImageUpdateAutomationStatus_|   
  
### ImageUpdateAutomationSpec

(_Appears on:_ ImageUpdateAutomation)

ImageUpdateAutomationSpec defines the desired state of ImageUpdateAutomation

Field| Description  
---|---  
`sourceRef`  
 _CrossNamespaceSourceReference_|  SourceRef refers to the resource giving access details to a git repository.  
`git`  
 _GitSpec_|  _(Optional)_ GitSpec contains all the git-specific definitions. This is technically optional, but in practice mandatory until there are other kinds of source allowed.  
`interval`  
 _[Kubernetes meta/v1.Duration](<https://pkg.go.dev/k8s.io/apimachinery/pkg/apis/meta/v1#Duration>)_|  Interval gives an lower bound for how often the automation run should be attempted.  
`policySelector`  
 _[Kubernetes meta/v1.LabelSelector](<https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/generated/kubernetes-api/v1.18/#labelselector-v1-meta>)_|  _(Optional)_ PolicySelector allows to filter applied policies based on labels. By default includes all policies in namespace.  
`update`  
 _UpdateStrategy_|  Update gives the specification for how to update the files in the repository. This can be left empty, to use the default value.  
`suspend`  
 _bool_|  _(Optional)_ Suspend tells the controller to not run this automation, until it is unset (or set to false). Defaults to false.  
  
### ImageUpdateAutomationStatus

(_Appears on:_ ImageUpdateAutomation)

ImageUpdateAutomationStatus defines the observed state of ImageUpdateAutomation

Field| Description  
---|---  
`lastAutomationRunTime`  
 _[Kubernetes meta/v1.Time](<https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/generated/kubernetes-api/v1.18/#time-v1-meta>)_|  _(Optional)_ LastAutomationRunTime records the last time the controller ran this automation through to completion (even if no updates were made).  
`lastPushCommit`  
 _string_|  _(Optional)_ LastPushCommit records the SHA1 of the last commit made by the controller, for this automation object  
`lastPushTime`  
 _[Kubernetes meta/v1.Time](<https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/generated/kubernetes-api/v1.18/#time-v1-meta>)_|  _(Optional)_ LastPushTime records the time of the last pushed change.  
`observedGeneration`  
 _int64_|  _(Optional)_  
`conditions`  
 _[[]Kubernetes meta/v1.Condition](<https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/generated/kubernetes-api/v1.18/#condition-v1-meta>)_|  _(Optional)_  
`observedPolicies`  
 _ObservedPolicies_|  _(Optional)_ ObservedPolicies is the list of observed ImagePolicies that were considered by the ImageUpdateAutomation update process.  
`observedSourceRevision`  
 _string_|  _(Optional)_ ObservedPolicies []ObservedPolicy `json:"observedPolicies,omitempty"` ObservedSourceRevision is the last observed source revision. This can be used to determine if the source has been updated since last observation.  
`ReconcileRequestStatus`  
 _[github.com/fluxcd/pkg/apis/meta.ReconcileRequestStatus](<https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/fluxcd/pkg/apis/meta#ReconcileRequestStatus>)_| (Members of `ReconcileRequestStatus` are embedded into this type.)  
  
### ObservedPolicies (`map[string]./api/v1.ImageRef` alias)

(_Appears on:_ ImageUpdateAutomationStatus)

ObservedPolicies is a map of policy name and ImageRef of their latest ImageRef.

### PushSpec

(_Appears on:_ GitSpec)

PushSpec specifies how and where to push commits.

Field| Description  
---|---  
`branch`  
 _string_|  _(Optional)_ Branch specifies that commits should be pushed to the branch named. The branch is created using `.spec.checkout.branch` as the starting point, if it doesn't already exist.  
`refspec`  
 _string_|  _(Optional)_ Refspec specifies the Git Refspec to use for a push operation. If both Branch and Refspec are provided, then the commit is pushed to the branch and also using the specified refspec. For more details about Git Refspecs, see: <https://git-scm.com/book/en/v2/Git-Internals-The-Refspec>  
`options`  
 _map[string]string_|  _(Optional)_ Options specifies the push options that are sent to the Git server when performing a push operation. For details, see: [https://git-scm.com/docs/git-push#Documentation/git-push.txt--push-optionltoptiongt](<https://git-scm.com/docs/git-push#Documentation/git-push.txt---push-optionltoptiongt>)  
  
### SigningKey

(_Appears on:_ CommitSpec)

SigningKey references a Kubernetes secret that contains a GPG keypair

Field| Description  
---|---  
`secretRef`  
 _[github.com/fluxcd/pkg/apis/meta.LocalObjectReference](<https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/fluxcd/pkg/apis/meta#LocalObjectReference>)_|  SecretRef holds the name to a secret that contains a 'git.asc' key corresponding to the ASCII Armored file containing the GPG signing keypair as the value. It must be in the same namespace as the ImageUpdateAutomation.  
  
### UpdateStrategy

(_Appears on:_ ImageUpdateAutomationSpec)

UpdateStrategy is a union of the various strategies for updating the Git repository. Parameters for each strategy (if any) can be inlined here.

Field| Description  
---|---  
`strategy`  
 _UpdateStrategyName_|  _(Optional)_ Strategy names the strategy to be used.  
`path`  
 _string_|  _(Optional)_ Path to the directory containing the manifests to be updated. Defaults to 'None', which translates to the root path of the GitRepositoryRef.  
  
### UpdateStrategyName (`string` alias)

(_Appears on:_ UpdateStrategy)

UpdateStrategyName is the type for names that go in .update.strategy. NB the value in the const immediately below.

This page was automatically generated with `gen-crd-api-reference-docs`
